Tech job market getting better? Indian IT sector records increase in hiring during June 2023
Indian IT sector recorded a slight increase in hiring activity during June 2023, as per a report. In the last couple of months, layoff news in the tech sector had left people worried. Divyanshi Sharma New Delhi,UPDATED: Jul 11, 2023 16:55 IST
In Short
 The tech job market scenario is slowly improving.
 There has been a slight growth in hirings in tech sector.
 Other sectors like healthcare and BPO also showed an upward trend in hiring activity.
When Twitter, in November last year, fired thousands of employees without prior notice, the world was shocked as well as appalled. However, little did they know that soon, many companies would be carrying out large-scale layoffs leaving millions of families across the world without a means of livelihood. After all, layoffs never effect just one person, entire families get affected. So when Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Meta, IBM, and other tech companies started firing employees left, right and center, people were left worried. And the situation seemed to be only getting worse with the passing time. Millions of people took to job-search platforms like LinkedIn and Naukri, looking for the next best opportunity. As a result, the tech job market became highly competitive and landing a job became a task.
Tech job market improving? However, according to a recent report by IANS originally attributed to foundit (previously Monster India & APAC), the tech job market scenario is slowly improving. Last month, the hiring activity in the sector has shown a 2 percent rise. While this is not a huge number, it certainly does make a difference and gives us hope. According to the report, other sectors like healthcare, BPO, production and manufacturing and logistics also showed a rise in recruitment activity. Healthcare showed an 11 percent increase while BPO sector witnessed a 7 percent increase in hirings. Production and manufacturing and logistics, on the other hand, had 5 percent and 9 percent rise respectively. foundit CEO Sekhar Garisa said, "Jobs in segments such as Healthcare, Manufacturing, and even IT have returned, and we expect to see better hiring intentions in the coming quarter as companies revisit their talent requirements. As seen during any global slowdown, India Inc. exhibited cautious hiring sentiments, but this is bound to bounce back with time." Microsoft recent layoffs Earlier today, it was reported that Microsoft had announced yet another round of layoffs. The company showed the exit door to 276 employees based out of Washington, USA. The impacted employees reportedly belonged to customer service, support, and sales departments. 66 of these employees were working remotely. Talking about the layoffs, a spokesperson told CNBC, "Organisational and workforce adjustments are a necessary and regular part of managing our business. We will continue to prioritise and invest in strategic growth areas for our future and in support of our customers and partners."
Prior to this, Microsoft had announced laying off 10,000 employees globally in January this year. Ex-Microsoft employee on losing his job Amidst this, a Microsoft employee who lost his job in the company's latest round of layoffs, shared on LinkedIn how it was his last day at the company. He also asked people to remember that layoffs have nothing to do with a person's capabilities. He also mentioned how he had just completed a year at the company and that it was 'an amazing year with an amazing team'. His LinkedIn post reads, "After an amazing year with an amazing team. I thank each of you for allowing me to lead and motivate you to our united common goal. Like many others I have been impacted by recent layoffs. Today is my last day with Microsoft, which brings me great sadness. It has been a journey navigating and championing the education tech space. It has been a joy connecting with all the brilliant individuals within the organization. Microsoft announces new round of layoffs As per a GeekWire report, 276 people have been impacted by Microsoft's recent round of layoffs. The impacted employees reportedly belonged to customer service, support, and sales departments. 66 of these employees were working remotely. Talking about the layoffs, a spokesperson told CNBC, "Organisational and workforce adjustments are a necessary and regular part of managing our business. We will continue to prioritise and invest in strategic growth areas for our future and in support of our customers and partners." Microsoft, in January this year, had announced laying off 10,000 employees. CEO Satya Nadella, in an email to employees announcing the layoffs, wrote
that the company is letting go of employees because of "macroeconomic conditions and changing customer priorities." Layoffs at Microsoft Microsoft, after letting go of 10,000 employees in January, conducted yet another round of layoffs in May this year. This time, the company reportedly fired over 500 people in the US. In his email to employees announcing the first round of layoffs in January this year, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella wrote that the company is letting go of employees because of "macroeconomic conditions and changing customer priorities." The CEO wrote, "While we are eliminating roles in some areas, we will continue to hire in key strategic areas." He also elaborated upon the importance of building a 'new computer platform' with the use of artificial intelligence. He wrote, "We’re also seeing organizations in every industry and geography exercise caution as some parts of the world are in a recession and other parts are anticipating one." 900 Amazon workers planning to strike Around 900 Amazon workers at UK's Coventry warehouse will be participating in the reported strike. According to Reuters, the strike will be staged for two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening on July 11, July 12 and July 13. Labour Union GMB said that same in a emailed statement to the news agency. The Amazon workers, through the strike, are demanding to be paid 15 pounds an hour. The company has fixed its minimum starting pay for employees between 11 to 12 pounds per hour, depending on the location.