Shape-Controlled Electrodeposition of Gold Nanostructures
Yang Tian,*,† Haiqing Liu,† Guohua Zhao,† and Tetsu Tatsuma‡
Department of Chemistry, Tongji UniVersity, Siping Road 1239, Shanghai 200092, People’s Republic of China,
and Institute of Industrial Science, The UniVersity of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku,
Tokyo 153-8505, Japan
ReceiVed: August 16, 2006; In Final Form: September 21, 2006
A one-step, nontemplated, low-cost electrochemical method for the growth of gold nanostructures with different
shapes is reported here. It is the first time that nanopyramidal, nanorod-like, and spherical gold nanostructures
were fabricated on polycrystalline gold substrates through electrochemical overpotential deposition (OPD)
by easily manipulating the deposited potentials and concentrations of HAuCl4. X-ray diffraction and
electrochemical analyses revealed that the pyramidal structures are more extensively dominated by (111)
facets in comparison with the other nanostructures. The nanopyramids, which have anisotropic structures,
exhibited broad extinction over the visible region, most likely due to plasmon resonance. Oxygen reduction
activity of a gold electrode with the pyramidal structures was lower than those of the electrodes with the
other nanostructures since the activity at the gold (111) surface is lower than that at the (100) and (110)
surfaces.
Introduction
In the past couple of decades, there has been a burst of
research activity on nanostructured metal particles, particularly
noble metal nanoparticles with controlled size, morphology, and
crystal orientation, because of their unique physical and chemical
properties different from bulk metals.1,2 The synthesis of noble
metal nanorods,3 nanowires,4 nanorings,5 nanobelts,6 and nanopolyhedrons,
7,8 including nanocubes,9 nanoprisms,10 and nanoplates,
11 has been reported on the basis of their potential
applications to materials and devices with a special electronic,
optical, thermal, catalytic, or magnetic function.1,2,12-14 Among
the noble metals, gold is of importance for its stability and
unique optical properties.
In fabrication of such functional materials and devices, it is
sometimes important to assemble the metal nanoparticles onto
solid substrates. Charged polymers and other functional polymers
have been employed to anchor the noble metal nanoparticles
as a monolayer onto various substrates,15,16 including
glasses, semiconductors, metals, and carbons. This self-assembly
technique could also fabricate robust multilayers by layer-bylayer
(LBL) assembly.17,18 Besides polymers, proteins19 and
DNA20 have also been exploited as anchoring agents. More
recently, a templated self-assembly technique has been developed
to fabricate three-dimensional nanoparticle arrays by using
a nanoporous alumina template.21 In addition to these two-step
methods, there have been reported methods for fabricating metal
nanoparticle arrays on the basis of electron-beam lithography
(EBL)22 or nanotemplating.23,24 However, these methods require
expensive equipment or special templates.
Another useful method is electrochemical deposition.25-29
Various morphologies including rod-like28 and dendritic29a gold
nanostructures have been obtained in a one-step process without
templates, typically in the presence of an additive such as
Pb4+,25-28 cysteine,29 or I-.29b However, those nanostructures
were not necessarily well-defined. In this paper, we demonstrate
one-step, inexpensive, nontemplated electrochemical fabrication
of pyramidal, rod-like, and spherical gold nanostructures on a
sputtered gold film. The structures are characterized by atomic
force microscopy (AFM), visible spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction
(XRD), and electrochemical methods. Their electrochemical
activities for oxygen reduction are also examined.
Experimental Procedures
Chemicals and Materials. Hydrogen tetrachloroaurate(III)
(HAuCl4) trihydrate was purchased from Aldrich (St. Louis,
MO) and used as supplied. Sodium hydroxide and perchloric
acid were obtained from Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd.
(Osaka, Japan). The solution used in this work was freshly
prepared Milli-Q water. ITO-coated glass plates with a square
resistance of 10-20 ¿ cm-2 were obtained from Asahi Glass
(Japan).
Preparation of Gold Nanostructures. ITO-coated glass
plates were thoroughly cleaned by sonication for 30 min in the
following solvents successively: soapy water, water, neat
acetone, and 1 M NaOH. Then, a gold film with a thickness of
about 50 nm estimated by AFM was sputtered on the clean ITO
glass plate. Pyramidal, rod-like, and spherical gold nanostructures
were electrodeposited from aqueous solutions of 0.1 M
HClO4 containing 40, 4, and 40 mM HAuCl4, respectively,
at -0.08, -0.08, and -0.2 V versus AgjAgCl, respectively,
for 2 min.
Instruments and Measurements. An atomic force microscope
SPA-300HV (Seiko Instruments Inc., Japan) was employed
to record the images of the nanostructured gold surfaces.
The XRD pattern was obtained by a D/max2550VB3+/PC
X-ray diffractometer using Cu (40 kV, 100 mA). The visible
reflectance spectra of the nanostructured surfaces were collected
by a UV-vis spectrophotometer MCPD-3000 (Otsuka Electronics,
Japan). A CHI 660 electrochemical work station (CH
instruments, Austin, TX) was employed in all electrochemical
measurements, which were carried out with a conventional twocompartment
three-electrode electrochemical cell. The reference
electrode was a KCl-saturated AgjAgCl electrode, while the
auxiliary electrode was a platinum wire. The real surface area
of gold nanostructures was determined by calculating the charge
consumed during the formation of the surface oxide monolayer
in H2SO4 solution.30
Results and Discussion
Morphology of Gold Nanostructures. Gold nanostructures
with various shapes were prepared by one-step and nontemplated
electrochemical deposition under different experimental conditions.
In the present work, we applied sufficiently negative
potentials, -0.08 and -0.2 V versus AgjAgCl, to the electrode,
to obtain three-dimensional structures.
The morphology of the nanostructured gold films was
characterized by AFM (Figure 1). As Figure 1a shows, deposition
at -0.08 V versus AgjAgCl in a 40 mM HAuCl4 solution
gave nanopyramidal structures. On the other hand, at a lower
HAuCl4 concentration (4 mM), rod-like nanostructures were
obtained, as Figure 1b shows. At a more negative potential,
-0.2 V, rather featureless spherical nanostructures formed in
the 40 mM HAuCl4 solution (Figure 1c). In the case of the
nanopyramids, the edge length of the bottom was 50-200 nm,
and the height was several hundreds of nanometers. The
nanorods grew out to about 100 nm wide and up to 200-300
nm long, or more. The diameters of the nanospheres ranged
from 70 to 100 nm. For comparison, an AFM image of the
sputtered gold substrate is also shown in Figure 1d. Its spherical
morphology with diameter of 25-50 nm is clearly different from
the electrochemically deposited nanostructures, either in size
or in shape.
Crystallographic Characterization. The crystalline orientation
of the gold nanostructures was investigated by XRD. The
diffraction peaks of the electrodeposited pyramidal, rod-like,
and spherical gold nanostructures are shown in Figure 2a-c,
respectively. The observed peaks corresponding to the (111),
(200), (220), (311), and (222) facets demonstrate that the
electrodeposited gold is composed of pure crystalline gold with
the face-centered cubic (fcc) structure. The intensity ratios of
the (200) peak to the (111) peak obtained for the pyramidal
(0.059), rod-like (0.078), and spherical (0.13) structures were
much lower than that reported in the standard file (JCPDS,
0.33),11 indicating that the gold nanostructures, nanopyramids
in particular, were preferentially dominated by (111) facets. In
contrast, the sputtered gold film exhibited a less prominent (111)
peak (Figure 2d), in comparison with those for the electrochemically
deposited nanostructures, indicating that the (100)
and (110) facets constitute a considerable portion of the sputtered
gold surface. Incidentally, the (222), (441), and (622) peaks of
the ITO substrate are also seen in Figure 2d.
An electrochemical method was also employed for characterization.
It is known that different gold facets show different
cyclic voltammograms (CVs) in acidic solutions.31 Figure 3
depicts the CVs collected at the nanostructured gold electrodes
in 0.01 M aqueous H2SO4. It is noteworthy that the CV for the
pyramidal nanostructure (Figure 3a), characterized by the
oxidation peak at around +1.3 V versus AgjAgCl, is characteristic
of the gold (111) surface.31 In the case of the CVs for
the rod-like and spherical nanostructures (Figure 3b,c, respectively),
a small oxidation peak at around +1.1 V, which is
indicative of the presence of the gold (100) and/or (110) facets,31
was observed, although there still was the large peak for the
(111) surface. On the other hand, in the case of the CV for the
sputtered gold, the peak for the (111) facets was much less
significant. These results are qualitatively in agreement with
the conclusions drawn from the XRD data.
Thus, it is reasonable to consider, on the basis of these results,
that each nanopyramid is a gold single crystal with (111) facets.
The nanopyramid can be recognized as a part of an octahedral
gold nanocrystal, and octahedral gold crystals are noramally
enclosed by (111) facets. It is known that the (111) facet is the
thermodynamically most stable among the possible facets of
the fcc crystals. Therefore, it is rational that the crystal with
the (111) facet is preferentially grown at a mild electrode
potential, which enables relatively slow crystal growth, in a
solution enriched with Au3+.
Conclusions
Pyramidal, rod-like, and spherical gold nanostructures were
electrochemically prepared at different potentials and different
HAuCl4 concentrations. The nanopyramids were primarily
dominated by (111) facets. The pyramidal nanostructures
exhibited a unique plasmon-based color due to their anisotropic
morphology and a low oxygen reduction activity owing to a
lack of (100) and (110) facets, which are more active for the
reaction than (111). The shape-controlled deposition of gold
nanostructures would be useful in the development of gold films
that are potentially applicable to electrocatalysis, surfaceenhanced
Raman scattering (SERS), surface plasmon sensors
(SPR), and so on.