  China People's Republic of China Shanghai Siping Road 1239 Tongji University of Chemistry, 20092 He Dongjing University of Industry and Science Research Institute, Muhei District, 461, Tokyo, Japan, 153-8505, August 16, 2006, the final form of the shape-controlling electrode, Yangtian, Liu Haiqing, Zhao Guohua, Chen Mazhe
  He Dongjing University of Chemistry, Muhei District, Shanghai, 153-8505, September 21, 2006


  He Dongjing University of Chemistry, Muhei District, Shanghai, September 21, 2006
  He Dongjing University of Chemistry, Muhei District, Shanghai, September 21, 2006
  He Dongjing University of Chemistry, Muhei District, Shanghai, September 21, 2006
 He Dongjing University of Chemistry, Muhei District, Shanghai, September 21, 2003


 However, these methods require expensive equipment or special templates.
  Another useful method is electromagnetic chemistry.
  Various forms, including rod and branch structures, are obtained through a process, without the need for templates.
  There are usually additives, such as Pb4 half-light acid or I.
 However, those nanostructures may not be clearly defined.
  In this article, we have demonstrated a cheap non-template electromagnetic chemical crystal tower-shaped, rod-shaped and ball-shaped nanostructure construction.
  The characteristics of the structure are atomic magnetism, AFM, visible light, X-ray detection, X-ray detection, and electromagnetic chemistry methods.
  Their electromagnetic chemistry also examines oxygen to restore vitality.



  Experimental steps
  Experimental steps
  Chemicals and materials
  4-Hydroxyl-3-HAe-UCl4-3-hydrogen-5-W-Aldrich-Cyclohexane-Mole
 And the method provided
 Hydroxyl-3-Hydroxyl-3-Hydroxyl-5-W-Aldrich-Cyclohexane-Mole
  The structure of the nanostructure, especially the nanostructure of the nanostructure crystal tower, is primarily based on the 111-face structure.
 In contrast, the performance of the construction of the crystal is not very prominent.
  The 111-face structure, which is 2D and electrochemical-style, shows that the 111-face structure constitutes a large part of the construction of the crystal.
  By the way, I mentioned the 222-face structure, 441-face structure, and 622-face structure.
  The Feng Yitou base is also shown in 2D.
  It also uses electrochemical methods to measure.
 As we all know, different golden sides show different effects.
  In the acid-soluble solution, the circular Fu'an diagram, CV31-3, depicts the CV0.01MH2SO4 water solution collected in the nanostructure crystal electrode.
 It is worth noting that the nanostructure of the crystal tower in the resume, Fu'an diagram 3A, is characterized by the addition of 1.3B to the oxidation peak relative to the FFCL.
  The characteristic gold 111-face 31CB as a rod and the spherical nanostructure are divided into Fu'an diagram 3B-C.
  Add 1.1B and there is a small oxidation peak on the left and right, which indicates that the presence of gold 100 or 110-face 31CB is observed, although there is still a large peak surface.
  On the other hand, it is not so important to build a crystal-face peak.

  These results are based on the quality and the data from XRD.
 Therefore, according to these results, it is reasonable to consider that each nanostructure crystal tower is a single-faceted crystal with a curved surface.
  The nanostructure crystal tower can be considered to be part of the octahedron.
  The nanostructure crystal and the octahedron crystal are usually encircled by the surface.
  As we all know, the surface is the most stable possible FCC crystal in thermodynamics.
 Therefore, the crystal has the advantage of growing relatively slowly on the weak electrode, which makes it easier to grow relatively slowly in Fu'an AU3.
 In conclusion, the crystal tower, the rod and the spherical crystal nanostructure conduct electricity chemically under different positions and different conditions.
  The nanostructure crystal tower is mainly based on 111-face.
  The crystal tower nanostructure is unique due to its diversity.
 The color formation and low oxygen retention are due to the lack of 100 and 110-face.
 This is 111 to the reaction ratio.
  The shape of the crystal controls the structure of the rod nanostructure.
  This will help the development of the crystal membrane, which may be suitable for electrolysis.
 The surface is equal to the magnetic sensor SDR etc.
Transcription. time elapsed:  136.90502315700002  sec

